>> Ifill: THE DEADLIEST DAY OF
VIOLENCE YET SHATTERS A
TENTATIVE TRUCE IN UKRAINE AS
RIOT POLICE OPEN FIRE ON
PROTESTERS HURLING FIREBOMBS
AMID FEAR THE GOVERNMENT WOULD
UNLEASH THE ARMY.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD TONIGHT, IN A FRENZY
TO ACQUIRE TECH START-UPS,
FACEBOOK SHELLS OUT AT LEAST $16
BILLION FOR THE MESSAGING
SERVICE WHATS-APP- IT'S BIGGEST
Y YEBUT.
>> Ifill: PLUS,
>> ARE WE GOING TO FACE THE
FUTURE WITH CONFIDENCE THAT WE
N CRCAEATE TOMORROW'S JOBS?
OR ARE WE GOING TO TRY AGAINST
ALL OF THE EVIDENCE OF THE LAST
20 YEARS TO OLD ON TO
YESTERDAY'S?
>> Ifill:
NAFTA TURNS 20.
WE LOOK AT THE SUCCESSES AND
FAILURES OF THE LANDMARK
AGREEMENT THAT STIRRED UP A
FIRESTORM OVER FREE TRADE.
THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: IN UKRAINE'S
CAPITAL CITY, THE STANDOFF
BETWEEN POLICE AND PROTESTERS
EXPLODED INTO MAYHEM.
A DOCTOR WORKING WITH THE
PROTESTERS REPORTED AT LEAST 70
PEOPLE DEAD AND 500 WOUNDED IN
KIEV.
WE HAVE A REPORT FROM JAMES
MATES OF INDEPENDENT TELEVISION
NEWS.
A WARNING, SOME OF THE IMAGES
MAY BE DISTURBING.
>> Reporter: NO ONE WANTS TO
CALL WHAT'S HAPPENING IN CENTRAL
KIEV A WAR.
BUT IT'S BEGINNING TO LOOK VERY
LIKE ONE.
AS RIOT POLICE BEGAN TO REDEPLOY
AROUND THE CITY'S CENTRAL SQUARE
EARLY THIS MORNING, PROTESTERS
MOD FOVERWARD TO FILL THE EMPTY
SPACE.
AND FROM THAT MOMENT ALL HELL
BROKE LOOSE.
FOR A WHILE IT WAS HAND TO HAND
FIGHTING.
THEN HEADLONG RETREAT.
AND THEN THE NORMAL VOCABULARY
OF RIOT CONTROL OR VIOLENT
PROTEST BECAME REDUNDANT.
THERE WAS SUDDENLY NO RESTRAINT.
THEY WERE SHOOTING AND SHOOTING
TO KILL.
THIS EXTRAORDINARY FOOTA IS GEOF
PROTESTERS COMING UNDER
SUSTAINED AND HIGHLY ACCURATE
SNIPER FIRE.
MAKESHIFT SHIELDS WERE BEYOND
USELESS AGAINST LIVE ROUNDS, AS
ONE BY ONE THEY WERE PICKED OFF.
PICTURES SHOT FROM THE OTHER
SIDE SHOW POLICE WITH HIGH
POWERED RIFLES METHODICALLY
TAKING AIM AND SHOOTING AT
TARGETS ALONG THE STREET.
VICTIMS WERE DRAGGED AWAY SOME
CLEARLY RRIBTELY WOUNDED.
IT'S IMPOSSIBLE TO KNOW HOW
BADLY.
THERE IS NO EVIDENCE FROM THESE
PICTURES THAT ANY OF THOSE SHOT
WERE ARMED.
AT ONE END OF INDEPENDENCE
SQUARE WE FOUND A PRIEST GIVING
THE LAST RITES TO ROWS OF
VICTIMS, ALL KILLED IN THE
PREVIOUS HOUR.
THERE WERE TEN OF THEM.
WE OBVIOUSLY CAN'T SHOW YOU THE
PICTURES, BUT I SAW FOR MYSELF--
MOST HAD BEEN SHOT IN THE HEAD
OR NECK.
AT THE OPPOSITE END OF THE
SQUARE, THE RECEPTION AREA OF
THE HOTEL UKRAINE HAD BEEN
TRANSFORMED INTO A MAKESHIFT
FIELD HOSPITAL AND TEMPORARY
MORGUE.
HERE ANOTHER 11 BODIES WERE LAID
OUT UNDER SHEETS.
THE DOCTORS TOLD US OF THE SCENE
THAT HAD CONFRONTED THEM THIS
MORNING.
WHAT SORT OF WOUNDS WERE THEY --
>> DIRECTLY TO NECK, HEART AND
LUNGS AND EYES.
>> Reporter: SO YOU'RE SURE
THESE WERE SNIPER--
>> I'M SURE THAT THESE SNIPERS
ARE VERY PROFESSIONAL BECAUSE
THEY DON'T GIVE CHANCE FOR US TO
SAVE LIFE FOR THESE 13 PEOPLE
WHO ARE LAYING HERE.
>> Reporter: IN THE COURSE OF
THE MORNING'S FIGHTING, AT LEAST
12 RIOT POLICE HAVE BEEN
SURROUNDED AND CAPTURED BY
PROTESTERS IN THE SQUARE, THEN
GIVEN SAFE PASSAGE THROUGH THE
CROWD AS A PRIEST LED THEM AWAY.
THERE ARE, THOUGH, CONFLICTING
REPORTS AS TO WHETHER THEY'RE
STILL BEING HELD HOSTAGE
TONIGHT.
THE SITE OF SO MANY OF THEIR
FRIENDS BEING SHOT IN COLD BLOOD
HAS ONLY STIFFENED THE
DETERMINATION OF THE MEN BEHIND
THE BARRICADES, TIRED AND DIRTY
AFTER DAYS OF FIGHTING.
THIS IS THE NEW FRONT LINE THAT
JUST A FEW HOURS AGO WAS HELD BY
POLICE. THEY'VE THROWN THIS UP
JUST THIS MORNING.
THE KEY POINT ABOUT IT IS IF THE
POLICE ATTACK, THEY TORCH IT.
TIRES, WOODEN PALLETS, IT'LL ALL
MAKE AN ENORMOUS BURNING
BARRICADE.
THERE ARE TALKGOINS G ON BUT
BOTH SIDES IN THIS BATTLE NOW
HAVE THE LOOK OF PEOPLE
PREPARING TO FIGHT TO THE
FINISH.
>> Woodruff: IN WASHINGTON, THE
WHITE HOUSE SAID PRESIDENT OBAMA
DISCUSSED THE SITUATION WITH
GERMAN CHANCELLOR ANGELA MERKEL
BY TELEPHONE.
SPOKESMAN JOSH EARNEST SAID THE
PRESIDENT HAS NOT MADE A
DECISION YET ABOUT NEW SANCTIONS
AGAINST UKRAINE, BUT IS NOT
CONSIDERING MILITARY ACTION.
>> MAKING A DECISION ABOUT
SANCTIONS IS-- CAN'T JUST BE A
KNEE-JERK REACTION.
THAT IT'S IMPORTANT FOR US TO
CONSIDER THE RANGE OF
CONSEQUENCES THAT COULD ENSUE
FROM APPLYING SOME SANCTIONS.
SO-- BUT AGAIN, WE'RE-- THERE IS
A SENSE OF URGENCY THAT IS BEING
FELT BECAUSE OF THE TERRIBLE
VIOLENCE THAT WE SAW OVERNIGHT.
>> Woodruff: LATER, VICE
PRESIDENT BIDEN SPOKE BY PHONE
WITH UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT
YANUKOVICH, IN THE LATEST OF A
SERIES OF CONVERSATIONS THEY'VE
HAD THIS WEEK.
THE EUROPEAN UNION, FOR ITS
PART, AGREED TO IMPOSE SANCTIONS
ON UKRAINE'S GOVERNMENT AT AN
EMERGENCY MEETING IN BRUSSELS.
WE'LL FOCUS ON THE DIPLOMATIC
EFFORTS RIGHT AFTER THE NEWS
SUMMARY.
IRAN AND SIX WORLD POWERS--
INCLUDING THE U.S.-- WRAPPED UP
THEIR OPENING ROUND OF NUCLEAR
TALKS TODAY IN VIENNA.
BOTH SIDES SAID THEY'RE HOPING
TO REACH A FINAL AGREEMENT THAT
SETS LIMITS ON IRAN'S NUCLEAR
PROGRAM.
THEY AGREED TO HOLD FURTHER
NEGOTIATIONS BEGINNING MARCH
17th.
THE EUROPEAN UNION'S FOREIGN
POLICY CHIEF CATHERINE ASHTON
AND IRAN'S FOREIGN MINISTER
MOHAMMAD JAVAD ZARIF SOUNDED
OPTIMISTIC.
>> WE HAVE HAD THREE VERY
PRODUCTIVE DAYS DURING WHICH WE
HAVE IDENTIFIED ALL OF THE
ISSUES WE NEED TO ADDRESS IN
REACHING A COMPREHENSIVE AND
FINAL AGREEMENT.
THERE IS A LOT TO DO.
IT WON'T BE EASY, BUT WE HAVE
MADE A GOOD START.
>> ( translated ): THE
ATMOSPHERE OF THE TALKS WAS VERY
SERIOUS, BUT GENERALLY ALL THE
PARTIES WHO WERE PRESENT AT THE
TALKS AGREED THAT IT WAS A
LITTLE MORE POSITIVE THAN
EXPECTED.
>> Woodruff: IN A RELATED
DEVELOPMENT, THE U.N.'S NUCLEAR
AGENCY REPORTED IRAN'S STOCKPILE
OF HIGHER-GRADE ENRICHED URANIUM
HAS DROPPED SUBSTANTIALLY UNDER
AN INITIAL AGREEMENT REACHED
LAST YEAR.
A SELECT FEW NORTH AND SOUTH
KOREAN FAMILIES WERE REUNITED
TODAY AT A NORTH KOREAN RESORT
AFTER SIX DECADES APART.
BROTHERS, SISTERS, SPOUSES AND
OTHER RELATIVES EMBRACED AND
CRIED AFTER YEARS WITH NO
CONTACT.
THEY TRADED PHOTOS OF RELATIVES
WHO COULDN'T ATTEND OR HAD DIED.
MANY ARE NOW IN THEIR 80S AND
90S, AND THIS COULBE TD HEIR
LAST CHANCE TO SEE EACH OTHER.
THESE WERE THE FIRST SUCH
REUNIONS IN THREE YEARS.
IN LONDON, THE FORMER EDITOR OF
THE NOW DEFUNCT "NEWS OF THE
WORLD" WAS ACQUITTED TODAY ON
ONE CHARGE IN A PHONE HACKING
TRIAL.
BUT, REBEKAH BROOKS TOOK THE
STAND TO DEFEND HERSELF AGAINST
FOUR OTHER CHARGES.
SHE DENIED KNOWING HER STAFFERS
EAVESDROPPED ON VOICEMAILS OF
CELEBRITIES, POLITICIANS AND
CRIME VICTIMS.
AT THE WINTER OLYMPICS IN
RUSSIA, A UKRAINIAN ALPINE SKIER
PULLED OUT OF HER FINAL EVENT,
THE SLALOM, IN SUPPORT OF THE
PROTESTS IN HER HOMELAND.
BOGDANA MATSOTSKA SAID SHE
WANTED TO RETURN HOME
IMMEDIATELY TO JOIN THE CROWDS
IN KIEV.
>> ( translated ): MY FRIENDS
ARE THERE AT THE MAIDAN, PEOPLE
I KNOW, CLOSE FRIENDS OF MINE.
TO GO ON THE START LINE WHEN
PEOPLE ARE DYING AND WHEN THE
AUTHORITIES BROKE THE MAIN RULE
OF THE OLYMPIC COMPETITION,
WHICH IS PEACE, I SIMPLY CANNOT
DO IT.
>> Woodruff: AS FOR THE DAY'S
COMPETITION, A SPOILER ALERT:
TUNE OUT FOR A MOMENT, IF YOU
DON'T WANT TO KNOW RESULTS JUST
YET.
IN WOMEN'S HOCKEY, CANADA BEAT
THE U.S. THREE TO TWO IN
OVERTIME TO WIN ITS 4th
CONSECUTIVE OLYMPIC GOLD,
RUSSIAN FIGURE SKATER ADELINA
SOTNIKOVA CLAIMED GOLD IN FRONT
OF THE HOME CROWD AND AMERICAN
MADDIE BOWMAN WON THE WOMEN'S
FREE SKI HALF-PIPE.
A REPORT OUT TODAY CHALLENGES
THE U.S. MILITARY'S EFFORTS TO
PREVENT PSYCHOLOGICAL PROBLEMS
IN ITS RANKS.
THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE-- AN
ARM OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF
SCIENCES-- CONCLUD THEESRE'S NO
PROOF THAT THE EFFORTS ACTUALLY
WORK.
THE REPORT SAYS, QUOTE:
IT ALSO FINDS THAT "PROGRAMS ARE
FLU SEASON IS HITTING YOUNG
AND MIDDLE-AGED ADULTS HAR
HARD-- HARDER THAN USUAL,
THE CDC SAID THOSE 18 TO 64
ACCOUNT FOR TWO-THIRDS OF
ALL CASES, TWICE THE NORM.
THEY ALSO MAKE UP MORE THAN
60% OF FLU-RELATED DEATHS.
IT MAY BE DUE PARTLY TO A
SURGE IN SWINE FLU WHICH
TENDS TO AFFECT THAT AGE
GROUP THE MOST.
NEWS SURVEYS
A PAIR OF NEW SURVEYS OUT TODAY
RAISED CONCERNS ABOUT THE GLOBAL
ECONOMY.
CHINESE MANUFACTURING DECLINED
FOR A SECOND STRAIGHT MONTH,
WHILE EUROPEAN INDUSTRIAL
ACTIVITY REMAINED SLOW.
MEANWHILE, STOCKS RALLIED ON
WALL STREET WITH WORD AT UTH.S.
MANUFACTURING IS GROWING AT ITS
FASTEST PACE IN NEARLY FOUR
YEARS.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 92 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
16,133.
THE NASDAQ ROSE MORE THAN 29
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 4,267.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
UKRAINE PROTESTS SEE THEIR
DEADLIEST DAY, FACEBOOK SHELLS
OUT BILLIONS FOR A MESSAGING
APP, AL-JAZEERA JOURNALISTS GO
ON TRIAL IN EGYPT, A NEW FORM OF
DISCIPLINE TO IMPROVE HIGH
SCHOOL LIFE.
PLUS, THE SUCCESSES AND FAILURES
OF NAFTA AS THE TRADE PACT TURNS
20.
>> Ifill: IN UKRAINE, AS THE
BATTLE BETWEEN GOVERNMENT FORCES
AND PROTESTERS BECAME BLOODIER
AND DEADLIER, DIPLOMATS LABORED
BEHIND THE SCENES TO FIND A WAY
TO END THE VIOLENCE.
LINDSEY HILSUM OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS REPORTS.
>> Reporter: THEY COULDN'T EVEN
GET THROUGH THE STREETS.
FIGHTING PREVENTED EUROPEAN
UNION FOREIGN MINISTERS FROM
REACHING THE PRESIDENTIAL PALACE
IN KIEV THIS MORNING.
THEY MADE IT BY THE AFTERNOON
AND ARE REPORTED TO BE PREPARING
FOR MORE TALKS OVERNIGHT.
PRESIDENT YANUKOVICH REPORTEDLY
LEFT THE MEETING AT ONE POINT TO
CALL PRESIDENT PUTIN, BUT THERE
WAS NO DEAL.
THE MINISTERS FROM FRANCE,
GERMANY AND POLAND LEFT AND
PLOMDIACY MOVED TO BRUSSELS.
E.U. FOREIGN MINISTERS--
DECIDED TO SANCTION KEY MEMBERS
OF THE UKRAINIAN GOVERNMENT,
WHOM THEY REGARD AS RESPONSIBLE
FOR THE VIOLENCE.
>> WE DECIDED AS A MATTER OF
URGENCY WE NEED TO LOOK AT
TARGETED SANCTIONS.
WE'VE AGREED TO SUSPEND EXPORT
LICENSES FOR EQUIPMENT FOR
INTERNAL REPRESSION AND WE'VE
ASKED THE RELEVANT WORKING
BODIES OF THE COUNCIL TO MAKE
THE NECESSARY PREPARATIONS
IMMEDIATELY.
>> Reporter: THE RUSSIAN FOREIGN
MINISTER VISITING BAGHDAD WAS
NOT IMPRESSED.
>> ( translated ): THE
OPPOSITION CANNOT OR DOES NOT
WANT TO DISTANCE ITSELF FROM
EXTREMIST GROUPS.
OUR WESTERN PARTNERS AND
EVERYONE IN EUROPE AND THE U.S.
HAVE THROWN THE BLAME ON THE
GOVERNMENT OF UKRAINE, AND THEY
DO NOT CONDEMN, AS THEY SHOULD,
THE ACTIONS OF THE EXTREMISTS.
WE ARE VERY TROUBLED BY ALL OF
THAT BECAUSE THE DOUBLE
STANDARDS ARE OBVIOUS.
>> Reporter: UKRAINE IS PULLED
BETWEEN EUROPE TO THE WEST AND
RUSSIA TO THE EAST.
IT BECAME INDEPENDENT IN 1991
AFTER THE COLLAPSE OF THE SOVIET
UNION.
A QUARTER OF ITS 45 MILLION
POPULATION ARE RUSSIAN SPEAKERS,
LIVING MAINLY IN THE SOUTH AND
EAST.
THE MAJORITY, WHO SPEAK
UKRAINIAN AS A FIRST LANGUAGE
DOMINATE THE WEST.
PRO-EUROPE ACTIVISTS IN
TERNOPIL, LUTSK AND IVANO-
FRANKIVSK HAVE SEIZED CONTROL OF
REGIONAL COUNCILS AND LVIV HAS
DECLARED INDEPENDENCE.
WESTERN UKRAINIANS TEND TO BE
CATHOLIC, WHILE EASTERNERS ARE
MAINLY ORTHODOX.
BUT SO FAR, THIS IS A FIGHT
BETWEEN THE STATE AND
PROTESTERS, NOT BETWEEN DIVIDED
UKRAINIANS.
OUTSIDE INTERVENTION THOUGH MAY
FAN THE FLAMES, AS UKRAINE
BECOMES THE VICTIM OF RENEWED
HOSTILITY BETWEEN RUSSIA AND THE
WEST.
>> Ifill: THE WORLD IS WATCHING
UKRAINE.
BUT WHAT DO THEY SEE, WHAT CAN
THEY DO AND WHAT'S AT STAKE?
FOR MORE ON THAT, WE'RE JOINED
BY WILLIAM TAYLOR, A FORMER U.S.
AMBASSADOR TO UKRAINE.
HE'S NOW A VICE PRESIDENT AT THE
U.S. INSTITUTE OF PEACE.
AND MATTHEW ROJANSKY, DIRECTOR
OF THE KENNAN INSTITUTE, WHICH
FOCUSES ON RUSSIA AND UKRAINE AT
THE WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL
CENTER FOR SCHOLARS.
MR. AMBASSADOR,
UNITED STATES, GERMANY,
SWEDEN, FRANCE, POLAND, ALL
OF THESE COUNTRIES ARE NOW
ENGAGED IN CONVERSATIONS
ABOUT WHAT TO DO IN UKRAINE.
WHY IS UKRAINE CENTRAL TO
THEIR INTERESTS?
>> UKRAINE IS AT THE HEART
OF EUROPE, SO THE EUROPEANS
THAT YOU MENTIONED ARE VERY
INTERESTED TO SEE STABILITY.
THEY ARE INTERESTED TO SEE A
MARKET.
THAT IS WHY THE DISCUSSIONS
BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN UNION
AND THE UKRAINIAN ON A
FREE-TRADE AGREEMENT HAVE
BEEN SO IMPORTANT.
AND THAT'S FAIRLY CLOSE.
SO THE ECONOMIC ISSUES ARE
KEY BUT THE SOCIAL ISSUES
ARE ALSO IMPORTANT.
UKRAINIANS WOULD LIKE PEOPLE
TO RECOGNIZE THAT A, THEY'RE
SOVEREIGN.
THAT B, THEY'RE EUROPEAN.
THEY ARE AT THE HEART OF
EUROPE.
THEY KNOW THAT THEY'RE ON
THE BORDERS BETWEEN EUROPEAN
UNION AND THE RUSSIANS, AS
YOUR MAP SHOWS.
SO THAT DISCUSSION IS AN
IMPORTANT ONE FOR THE
UKRAINIANS IN PARTICULAR.
BUT THE EUROPEANS AND THE
RUSSIANS HAVE THINGS AT
STAKEMENT WE HAVE ING THISES
AT STAKE.
WE WOULD LIKE TO SEE THE
UKRAINIANS MAKE THEIR OWN
DECISIONS.
WE WITHOUT LIKE TO SEE A
SOVEREIGN UKRAINE THAT IS
RUN BY A DEMOCRATIC
GOVERNMENT, MACKING
DECISIONS THAT AFFECT
UKRAINE.
>> Ifill: BUT WHAT IF A
SOVEREIGN UKRAINE THERE ARE
SO MANY RUSSIAN SPEAKERS, SO
MANY OF THE COUNTRY IS STILL
ALLIED WITH RUSSIA.
WHAT IF A SOVEREIGN UKRAINE
CHOSE RUSSIA?
>> WELL, I THINK ONE OF THE
FUNDAMENTAL PROBLEMS WITHIN
UKRAINE NOW IS NOT JUST THAT
THE COUNTRY IS DIVIDED
BETWEEN AN EAST WHICH
PREFERS RUSSIA, SPEAKS
RUSSIA AND A WEST WHICH
PREFERS UKRAINE OR EUROPE,
BUT THAT THE CONVERSATION AS
AMBASSADOR TAYLOR MENTIONED
ISN'T REALLY ABOUT
GEOPOLITICS ANY MORE.
IT'S ABOUT DECENCY, IT'S
ABOUT WHETHER PEOPLE HAVE A
RIGHT TO PROTEST, TO SPEAK
OUT ABOUT WHAT THEY WANT IN
THE FIRST PLACE.
WHETHER THE GOVERNMENT CAN
SIMPLY STEAL FROM THEM WITH
IMPUNITY WHICH IT HAS BEEN
DPORING MANY YEARS NOW.
AND IT'S NOT ABOUT
INDIVIDUAL POLITICAL
LEADERS.
YOU KNOW, IT'S NOT ABOUT
GETTING-- OUT OF PRISON AS
IT WAS MAYBE A YEAR OR TWO
YEARS AGO, THIS IS ABOUT
PEOPLE DYING NEEDLESSLY IN
THE STREETS FOR SIMPLY
EXERCISING BASIC RIGHTS AND
FREEDOMS.
THE PROBLEM WITH THAT
SCENARIO EVEN CUTTING A GOO
POLITICAL DEAL, IMAGINE
RUSSIA, UNIT STATES AND
EUROPE SIT AROUND A TABLE
AND COME TIE KPLOMS T
DOESN'T NECESSARILY SOLVE
THE CRISIS IN THE STREETS
SWRECHLT REACHED A DEADEND.
>> Ifill: LAST NIGHT WE
HEARD THERE WAS A TRUCE AND
THERE WAS NOT A TRUCE.
DO WE KNOW IF IT WAS EVER
REAL.
>> IT WAS PROPOSED AND
AGREED ON BOTH SIDES AND
MIGHT HAVE RESULTED IN SOME
DISCUSSIONS.
THAT ACTUALLY IS CAUSE FOR
SOME HOPE THAT WHEN THE
LEADERS GET TOGETHER, THEY
CAN COME TO AN AGREEMENT AND
MAKE SOME PLANS TO SIT DOWN
AND HAVE A DISCUSSION ABOUT
HOW TO RESOLVE THIS.
TODAY'S VIOLENCE MAKES THAT
MUCH MORE DIFFICULT.
I WOULD SAY NOT IMPOSSIBLE,
BUT MUCH MORE DIFFICULT.
>> Ifill: WHY DID THIS
ESCALATE SO FAST, WHY DID IT
SEEM, A WEEK TWO, MAYBE TWO
WEEKS AGO AS IF THINGS HAD
BEEN RESOLVED.
AND THEN IT STIRRED UP
AGAIN.
AND IT SEEMED LIKE THEY WERE
ON THE BRINK OF SOMETHING
AND NOW WE'RE APPROACHING A
HUNDRED DEATHS?
>> I THINK YOU HAVE AT LEAST
TWO PROBLEMS.
ONE OF THEM IS THE SPOILER
EFFECT.
YOU KNOW, SERGEI LAVROV THE
RUSSIAN FOREIGN MINISTER
MENTIONED THE EXTREMISTS
THAT THE RUSSIANS REFUSE TO
CONDEMN THERE ARE ABSOLUTELY
PEOPLE IN THE CROWDS WHO
FROM THE BEGINNING HAVE BEEN
PREPARED TO USE SHOCKING
VIOLENCE JUST AS AN ALMOST
COMICAL IF IT WEREN'T SO
TRAGIC EXAMPLE TODAY, SOME
FORCES ACTUALLY PULLED THE
BODYGUARDS OF THE EUROPEAN
FOREIGN MINISTERS WHO WERE
VISITING OUT OF THEIR CARS
AND ROUGHED THEM UP.
SO PEOPLE WHO ARE READY TO
GO ON VIOLENCE ARE ON BOTH
SIDES.
I THINK THE SECRETARY
PROBLEM IS VIOLENCE BEGETS
VIOLENCE.
AND ONCE YOU HAD CASUALTIES,
AGAIN, THE PROTESTS CEASED
TO BE ABOUT JOINING WITH THE
EUROPEAN UNION, THEY CEASED
TO BE ABOUT GEOPOLITICS,
EVEN ABOUT DOMESTIC
POLITICS.
THEY'RE ABOUT ANGER ABOUT
WHAT HAS BEEN DONE TO
INNOCENT PEOPLE.
AND THAT'S SOMETHING THAT IS
VERY DIFFICULT TO
DE-ESCALATE.
>> SO WHAT ARE THE OPTIONS.
THEY SAY THAT THE UNITED
STATES HAD SOME LEVERAGE,
RUSSIA HAD SOME LEVERAGE.
AND YANUKOVYCH IS HOLDING OPTIO?
>> HIS OPTIONS ARE TO BACK
DOWN, DIFFICULT FOR HIM TO
DO.
ANOTHER OPTION IS TO DECLARE
A STATE OF EMERGENCY AND USE
A LARGER FORCE, THE MILITARY
FORCE, WHICH IS NOT YET
DONE.
IF HE WERE --
>> THERE IS FEAR THAT THAT
IS.
>> THERE IS FEAR.
AND WE OUGHT TO BE MAKING IT
VERY CLEAR THAT THAT IS SUCH
A BAD IDEA, THAT IT'S SUCH A
TERRIBLE THING FOR UKRAINE.
AND FOR THE REST OF THE
WORLD, FOR THAT MATTER, THAT
WE WILL TAKE STRONG
MEASURES.
>> I HEARD TODAY, HOWEVER,
THAT OUR SECRETARY OF
DEFENSE HAS BEEN TRYING TO
CALL AND ISN'T GETTING THE
PHONE CALLS RETURNED, HOW DO
WE MAKE IT CLEAR?
>> THEY UNDERSTAND THIS.
THEY UNDERSTAND EXACTLY WHAT
THE CONSEQUENCES WOULD BE,
IN TERMS OF FINANCIAL
SANCTIONS AND THE EUROPEANS
HAVE DONE THE RIGHT THING OF
MOVING FORWARD.
IN TERMS IT OF TRAVEL BANS,
MOST OF ALL OF THE SENIOR
PEOPLE IN THE GOVERNMENT
HAVE ASSETS IN EUROPE,
MAINLY IN EUROPE.
THEY HAVE THEIR CHILDREN IN
EUROPEAN SCHOOLS.
THEY VALUE THOSE THINGS.
THESE SANCTIONS, I THINK,
ARE SOMETHING THAT WE OUGHT
TO PUSH WITH THE EUROPEANS.
>> MATTHEW, WHAT DO YOU
THINK ABOUT THE PROSPECT OF
SANCTIONS?
IS IT THE RIGHT TIME OR IS
IT TOO LITTLE TOO LATE.
>> WELL, IT'S ALREADY PASSED
IN THE SENSE THAT THE UNITED
STATES HAS IMPOSED A VISA
BAN AND OTHER KINDS OF, I
BELIEVE, FINANCIAL SANCTIONS
ARE UNDER WAY.
EUROPE IS WELL UNDER WAY AS
WELL.
MY CONCERN HERE IS WE'RE
STUCK BETWEEN A ROCK AND A
HARD PLACE.
ON THE ONE HAND WE ARE
TRYING TO IMPOSE SANCTIONS
ON PEOPLE WHO MORE OR LESS
FEEL THAT THEIR LIVES ARE AT
STAKE.
THEIR POLITICAL SURVIVAL.
UKRAINE IS NOT A COUNTRY
WHERE YOU LEAVE POLITICAL
OFFICE, YOU GIVE UP WEALTH
AND POWER AND YOU'RE FINE.
SO IF THESE PEOPLE'S BACKS
ARE AGAINST THE WALL,
TELLING THEM YOU CAN'T
VACATION IN FLOOR GA, THE
SOUTH OF FRANCE, WE'RE GOING
TO FREEZE YOUR ASSETS, IT
JUST MAY NOT BE ENOUGH IT
MAY BE A FEW GRAINS OF SAND
ON ONE END OF THE SCALE TK
DOESN'T CHANGE THE BALANCE
FOR THEM.
ON THE OTHER HAND, IF WE
ESCALATE SANCTION GO AFTER
UKRAINIAN BUSINESSES OWNED
BY THE OLIGARCH, THE
KINGMAKERS IN UKRAINE, THE
RESULTS COULD BE
UNPREDICTABLE.
BRINGING POWERFUL FORCES
INTO THE FIGHT MORE DIRECTLY,
WE DON'T KNOW HOW THAT WILL
END.
IT COULD MEAN WIDENING
VIOLENCE IN THE COUNTRY.
>> Ifill: IT SOUNDS LIKE YOU
BELIEVE THE MOMENT HAS
PASSED AND WE JUST HAVE TO
LET THIS PLAY OUT.
>> I'M NOT SURE THE MOMENT
HAS PASSED.
I THINK WE SHOULD NOT ASSUME
THE MOMENT HAS PASSED.
BOTH SIDES RECOGNIZE THAT
THEY ARE AT AN IMPASSE, AND
THE VIOLENCE SHOWS HOW
SERIOUS IT IS.
BOTH SIDES RECOGNIZE THE
SERIOUSNESS OF THIS.
WE SHOULD NOT ASSUME THAT
THERE IS NOTHING THAT WE CAN
DO, THAT WE OUGHT TO JUST
ALLOW THINGS TO HAPPEN.
>> AND WHAT WOULD THAT BE?
>> THAT WOULD BE TO MAKE IT
CLEAR AGAIN THAT THERE ARE
CONSEQUENCES FOR EUROPEAN-- FOR
EUROPEAN INVESTMENTS THAT
THE UKRAINIANS HAVE.
ON THE OLIGARCHES, THEY, IT
SEEMS TO ME HAVE BEEN
CAUTIOUS ABOUT WHERE THEY
COME DOWN.
IT'S NOT CLEAR TO ME THAT
THE OLIGARCHES HAVE BEEN
SPORTING THE-- SUPPORTING
THE GOVERNMENT, SPORTING
YANUKOVYCH ON THIS THING.
I WOULD NOT PUSH THEM AWAY
THERE THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUPPORTING WHAT WE ARE
TALKING ABOUT IN TERMS OF
SOVEREIGNTY AND A NEGOTIATED
SETTLEMENT.
>> Ifill: IS IT POSSIBLE
THAT RUSSIA HAS MORE
LEVERAGE IN THIS THAN ANY OF
THE EUROPEAN COUNTRIES OR
THE U.S.?
>> I THINK AT THIS POINT,
YES.
BUT IT'S A QUESTION OF VERY
FINE DISTINCTIONS F RUSSIA
WAS CALLING THE SHOTS, IT TO
THE de GROH A LOT OF PEOPLE
SUGGEST, I DONE THINK YOU
WOULD SEE THE CHAOS YOU SEE
RIGHT NOW.
EARLY ON IN THIS, IN
NOVEMBER OF LAST YEAR,
DECEMBER, IT MAYBE SERVED
THE KREMLIN'S INTEREST TO
MAKE THE ARGUMENT, HEY, YOU
MOVED TOWARD EUROPE, YOU GET
CHAOS.
AT THIS POINT WHEN YOU HAVE
BLOOD RUNNING IN THE STREETS,
RUSSIAN INVESTMENTS, RUSSIAN
FAMILY TIES, RUSSIA'S
POLITICAL INTERESTS IN
SIMPLY STABILITY AND
SECURITY IN ITS
NEIGHBORHOOD.
I MEAN YOU SAW THE MAP,
THESE COUNTRIES ARE JOINED
AT THE HIP AND HAVE BEEN FOR
THEIR ENTIRE HISTORIES, THIS
ISN'T IN RUSSIA'S INTEREST
ANY MORE EITHER.
SO I QUERY WHETHER PUTIN
REALLY HAS THE ABILITY, EVEN
IF HE WANTED TO, TO SAY STOP
THE VIOLENCE AND MAKE IT
STICK.
BUT THAT'S WHAT IS NEED.
WE NEED A PAUSE.
WE NEED TIME FOR PEOPLE TO
RECOVER AND THEN TO HAVE
SERIOUS NEGOTIATIONS OOEZ
MATTHEW ROJANSKY OF THE
WORLD FOOD CENTER AND
WILLIAM TAYLOR FROM THE U.S.
INSTITUTE OF PEACE, THANK
YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: NOW, WHY IS
FACEBOOK WILLING TO PAY $19
BILLION FOR A MESSAGING
APPLICATION AND SERVICE THAT'S
JUST FOUR YEARS OLD AND HAS ONLY
55 EMPLOYEES?
FACEBOOK'S PURCHASE OF WHATSAPP
ECLIPSES JUST ABOUT ANY OTHER
DEAL MADE FOR A START-UP IN
RECENT YEARS.
AS AN INSTANT MESSAGING SERVICE
FOR MOBILE DEVICES, IT'S
ATTRACTING AN ENORMOUS NUMBER OF
USERS AROUND THE WORLD AT A
RAPID PACE.
PEOPLE CAN SEND TEXTS, PHOTOS
AND VIDEO ON WHATSAPP OVER THEIR
PHONES.
THERE ARE NOW MORE THAN 50
BILLION MESSAGES SENT THAT WAY
EACH DAY.
THE FIRST YEAR OF SERVICE IS
FREE TO CONSUMERS.
AFTERWARDS IT CHARGES JUST ONE
DOLLAR A YEAR.
CHEAPER THAN TEXT SERVICE IN
MANY COUNTRIES AND THERE IS NO
ADVERTISING.
IN THE PAST NINE MONTHS, ITS USE
HAS DOUBLED TO 450 MILLION
MONTHLY USERS MOSTLY OUTSIDE THE
U.
REPORTER ELLIS HAMBURGER HAS
BEEN COVERING THIS FOR "THE
VERGE," A TECHNOLOGY CENTERED
NEWS WEBSITE AND HE JOINS ME
NOW.
ELLIS HAMBURGER, WELCOME TO
THE PROGRAM.
FIRST OF ALL, TELL US PORE
ABOUTS WHAT AZ APP, WHAT IS
T HOW DOES IT WORK.
>> WHAT ISAPP IS REALLY SUCH
EL.
IT WAS BUILT FOR A
REPLACEMENT TO HELP SAVE
PEOPLE MONEY WATCH.
WHAT YOU CAN DO IS YOU CAN
SEND TEXT MESSAGES, PHOTO
MESSAGES, VOICE MESSAGES TO
YOUR FRIENDS, ONE OR MORE
FRIENDS AND IT'S PRIVATE AND
IT WORKS JUST ON YOUR PHONE.
SO MOST IMPORTANTLY, THOUGH,
IT HOOKS INTO YOUR PHONE
BOOK.
SO THE SECOND YOU START
USING IT, YOU CAN TALK TO
ALL YOUR FRIENDS AND SAVE A
TON OF MONEY ON YOUR TEXTING
BILLS.
>> AND WHAT DOES IT BRING TO
FACEBOOK THAT FACEBOOK
DOESN'T ALREADY HAVE?
>> I THINK IT BRINGS TWO
THINGS TO FACEBOOK.
ONE, IT'S JUST THE FACT THAT
IT'S ONE OF FACEBOOK'S
BIGGEST COMPETITORS.
FACEBOOK DOESN'T EXACTLY
KNOW WHAT PATHS WHATAPP IS
GOING TO GO DOWN BUT WITH
450 MILLION ACTIVE USERS
PEOPLE USING IT EVERY MONTH,
IT'S RIGHT UP THERE WITH
FACEBOOK IN TERMS OF THE
MOST USED APPS IN THE WORLD
AN THEY'RE AFRAID OF
TELEPHONE.
THEY DON'T WANT PEOPLE
SOCIALIZING ON APPS THAT
AREN'TS THERE.
AND THE SECOND PIECE IS THAT
WHAT'S APP IS INCREDIBLY
DOMINANT IN PLACES IN
COUNTRIES AROUND THE WORLD
WHERE FACEBOOK ISN'T LIKE
SPAIN WHERE FACEBOOK
MESSENGER APP IS ABOUT 10%
USAGE AND WHAT'SAPP IS
HIGHER THAN 85%.
SO I THINK IT'S ABOUT
ACQUIRING A LOT OF NEW USERS
BUT ALSO THEY JUST WANT TO A
QIR ANY COMPANY THAT IS
REALLY THREATENING THEM IN
THE COMMUNICATION SPACE.
>> Woodruff: SO SPAIN AND
YOU ARE SAYING MANY OTHER
COUNTRIES.
>> YES, SWITZERLAND IS
ANOTHER ONE.
AND IT'S ALL ABOUT FOR THEM
KIND OF CONTROLLING THE WAY
THAT YOU TALK TO YOUR
FRIENDS.
AND WE'RE A LITTLE BLIND TO
IN THE UNITED STATES BECAUSE
FACEBOOK'S MESSENGER APP HAS
BEEN SO POPULAR AND TEXT
MESSAGING PLANS ARE CHEAPER
HERE THAN AROUND THE WORLD
BUT SO MANY PLACES AROUND
THE WORLDS WHAT APP IS THE
WAY THAT PEOPLE TALK TO
THEIR FRIENDS AND FAMILY,
SINCE NOBODY IS TALKING ON
THE PHONE ANY MORE.
THEY ARE JUST TEXTING.
AND FACEBOOK CAN'T LET THAT
OPPORTUNITY PASS.
>> AND WHY ASK IT WORTH $19
BILLION POTENTIALLY.
I LOOKED IT UP TODAY AND WAS
REMINDED THAT COMCAST PAID,
I THINK, $17 BILLION OR $18
BILLION FOR NBC UNIVERSAL
JUST A COUPLE OF YEARS AGO.
>> IT'S HARD TO QUANTIFY
EXACTLY HOW MUCH IT'S WORTH.
FACEBOOK PAID 10% OF ITS
MARKET CAP, $35-- 35% OF THE
CASH IT HAS ONS WHAT APP.
AND THAT IS A FRACTION OF
THE MONEY FACE BOK HAS TO
SPENDMENT BUT I THINK THAT
IT'S NOT AS MUCH AS IT COULD
HAVE-- HAVE EVENTUALLY MEANT
FOR FACEBOOK HADS WHAT APP
TAKEN OVER THE WORLD.
WORLD IS MOVING INCREASINGLY
TO MOBILE DEVICES, A PLACE
THAT FACE BOOK HAS
STRUGGLED.
SO THEY'RE VERY AFRAID OFS
WHAT APP.
SO THE PRICE I THINK MATTERS
LESS THAN KIND OF SECURING
ITS PLACE.
NOW FACIALBOOK OWNS THE TWO
BIGGEST WAYS THAT PEOPLE
TALK TO EACH OTHER IN THE
WORLD WHETHER THAT'S SHARING
SOMETHING WITH ALL YOUR
FRIENDS ON FACEBOOK OR
SHARING PERSONALLY WITH ONE
OR A GROUP OF FRIENDS ON
WHAT'S APP.
SO IT'S KIND OF HARD TO PUT
A PRICE TAG ON IT.
BUT IT'S SOMETHING THAT'S SO
CRITICAL FOR FACEBOOK THAT I
THINK WHATEVER THE PRICE
WOULD HAVE BEEN, I THIS I
THEY WOULD HAVE FELL FOR IT.
>> SO SPELL OUT A LITTLE BIT
MORE WHAT IS THAT FACEBOOK
WAS AFRAID OF HERE.
>> I THINK THEY ARE AFRAID
OF PEOPLE USING OTHER
SERVICES FOR PEOPLE TO
COMMUNICATE WITH THEIR
FRENSD.
FACEBOOK IS UNWITH OF THE
ORIGINAL WAYS THAT PEOPLE
COMMUNICATED WITH THEIR
FRIENDS ON-LINE WHETHER ON
FACEBOOK CHAT OR POSTING
PHOTOS.
PHOTOS, ESPECIALLY, ARE A
WAY THAT WE ALL COMMUNICATE
WHETHER IT'S ON FACEBOOK OR
INSTAGRAM.
BUT THE CRAZY PART IS THAT
PEOPLE ARE SHARING JUST AS
MANY PRIVATELY AS THEY ARE
WITH ALL THEIR FRIENDS.
SO THAT'S A PLACE, THAT'S A
DOMAIN THAT FACEBOOK HASN'T
EVEN D BEGUN TO GIVE IN YET.
THEY'RE SHARING WITH JUST A
FEW PEOPLE.
THEY TRIED IT A LITTLE BIT
WITH THE NEW PRODUCT CALLED
INSTAGRAM DIRECT BUT IT
HASN'T EXACTLY CAUGHT ON.
SO IN OTHER WORDS, FACEBOOK
OWNS THE SPACE THAT'S
CONNECTING WITH ALL YOUR
FRIENDS.
LET'S SAY, THE THOUSAND
FRIENDS YOU HAVE ACCUMULATED
ON THE SITE BUT IT REALLY
DIDN'T HAVE MUCH OF A BIG
PLAYER IN THE SPACE FOR
PRIVATE SHARING.
SO THAT'S REALLY WHAT IS
TRYING TO DO WITH ITS
ACQUISITION OFS WHAT APP.
>> SO DOES THIS IN EFFECT
GIVE FACEBOOK A MONOPOLY ON
MESSAGING AROUND THE WORLD?
WHAT ARE WE MISSING HERE?
>> I THINK IT DOES.
I THINK IT ABSOLUTELY DOES.
WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE CHARTS
THERE ARE A FEW PLACES
AROUND THE WORLD LIKE IN
SOUTH KOREA, AN APP THERE IS
OVERWHELMINGLY POPULAR WITH
I THINK 89% OF THE MARKET
SHARE THERE.
AND IN JAPAN THERE IS AN APP
CALLED LINE THAT EVERYONE
USES.
SO IN NEITHER OF THOSE
PLACES PEOPLE ARE USINGS
WHAT APP OR FACEBOOK
MESSENGER VERY MUCH.
BUT PRETTY MUCH EVERY OTHER
COUNTRY IN THE WORLD WITH
SMART PHONES IS OVERWHELMINGLY
USING WAS APP.
SO YOU COULD CALL IT A
MONOPOLY.
I THINK WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE
WAY THAT PEOPLE ARE
CONNECTING ON THEIR PHONES
OVER THE NEXT FEW YEARS,
IT'S VERY LIKELY THAT EITHER
FACEBOOK ORS WHAT APP.
>> I DID READ SOME
SPECULATION TODAY THAT MAYBE
THIS WAS OVERPRICED.
HOW WILL WE KNOW WHEN, IF
THIS IS TOO MUCH MONEY TO
HAVE PAID FOR THIS DE-- THIS
MESSAGING SERVICE?
>> I THINK IT'S TOUGH TO
TELL YOU ABOUT WITH AS MUCH
CASH ON HAND AS FACEBOOK HAS,
IT'S GOING TO BE WILLING TO
PAY THE PRICE.
GOOGLE WAS ALSO THROWING
SOME CHIPS IN THE GAME
TRYING TO ACQUIRES WHAT APP
BECAUSE EVERYONE SEEMS TO
AGREE THAT THIS IS JUST
ABOUT THE MOST IMPORTANT APP
COMPANY IN THE WORLD.
MARK ZUCKERBURG SAID HIMSELF
THATS WHAT APP IS THE ONLY
APP IN THE WORLD WHERE
ENGAGEMENT IS HIGHER THAN
FACEBOOK.
SO IT'S HARD TO PUT A PRICE
TAG ON THAT.
BUT WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE
SIZE OF FACE BOOK, THE 100
OR SO BILLION DOLLARS IT'S
WORTH, REALLY,S WHAT APP YOU
KNOW SOME WAYS COULD BE
CONSIDERED A BARGAIN EVEN
THOUGH THEY HAVE HARDLY
MONETIZED YET.
I THINK THEY HAD JUST 20
MILLION IN REVENUE.
BUT WITH THE KIND OF
INCREDIBLE ENGAGEMENT THEY
HAD WITH PEOPLE SHARING
HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS OF
PHOTOS AND LIKE YOU WERE
SAYING IS, 50 BILLION
MESSAGES, THERE IS SO MUCH
ROOM TO MONETIZE THAT THE
OPPORTUNITY IS PRETTY
INCREDIBLE.
>> SO DO YOU SEE MORE OF
WHAT'S APP COMING INTO THE
UNITED STATES AND DO YOU
THINK FACE BOCK WILL TRY TO
CHANGE IT, CHANGES WHAT APP?
>> TO ANSWER YOUR SECOND
QUESTION FIRST, A LOT OF
SITUATIONS, THE COMPANIES
THAT ACQUIRE ANOTHER SMALLER
COMPANY THEY TRY TO EXERT
SOME EFFECT ON IT BUT I
DON'T THINK FACE BOCK WANTS
TO DO THAT THEY LEARNED HEN
THEY A REQUIRE-- ACQUIRED
INSTAGRAM BY LEAVING THE
KMOUMENT ALONE AND NOT
MESSING WITH THE FORMULA
THAT MADE IT SUCCESSFUL,
WHICH SOME ARGUE THAT
BECAUSE THE SERVICES AREN'T
LIKE FACEBOOK, THEY DON'T
WANT TO MESS WITH IT.
FACE BUC C.E.O. AND THES
WHAT APP C.E.O. PROMISED
THAT FACE BOK WANT GOING TO
PUT ADD ADS INSIDES WHAT
APP.
I THINK IT IS PORE ABOUT
OWNING ONE OF THEIR BIGGEST
COMPETITORS THAN TROYING TO
IMPOSE THEIR AAD SPORT ON
FACE BOK.
>> DO YOU THINK IT'S COMING
NOT U.S.?
>> THAT'S A GOOD QUESTION.
AND I DON'T THINK IT IS.
I THINK THAT THE U.S. MARKET
FOR MESSAGING APPS IS REALLY
FRAGMENTED.
AND PEOPLE USE THE APP THEIR
FRIENDS ARE ON.
AND EVERYONE AROUND THE
WORLD THAT'S BEENS WHAT APP
BUT HERE IT MIGHT BE KIK
MESSENGER T MIGHTING
FACEBOOK MESSENGER, I PHONES
ARE INCREDIBLY POPULAR IN
THE UNITED STATES AND I
PHONES CAN TEXT EACH OTHER
FOR FREE WITH I MESSAGE.
THERE IS NO REASON TO USES
WHAT APP, LIKE I WAS SAYING
THE REASON PEOPLE CHOSE IT
IS TO SAVE MONEY ON TEXTING
WHERE IN THE UNITED STATES
TEXT ARE CHEAPER.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> AND
>> Woodruff: BY THE WAY,
FACEBOOK TURNED THE RIPE AGE OF
TEN THIS MONTH.
SO WE LOOKED BACK AT SOME OF THE
COMPANY'S HITS AND MISSES FROM
LIKING TO POKING.
YOU CAN VOTE FOR YOUR FAVORITES
ON OUR WEBSITE.
>> Ifill: THREE AL JAZEERA
TELEVISION JOURNALISTS ARRESTED
IN EGYPT LAST DECEMBER WENT ON
TRIAL TODAY ACCUSED OF
TERRORISM.
THE PROCEEDINGS COME AMID A
CONTINUED CRACKDOWN BY EGYPT'S
MILITARY GOVERNMENT THAT HAS
ENSNARED REPORTERS AS WELL AS
THE POLITICAL OPPOSITION.
PAUL MASON OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS HAS OUR STORY.
>> INSIDE THREE JOURNALISTS
FROM THE AL JAZEERA NETWORK
FACED TERRORISM CHARGES,
MOHAMED FAHMY, AND PETER
GRESTE HAVE BEEN HELD SINCE
DECEMBER.
>> WE ASKED THEY BE RELEASED
PENDING INVESTIGATIONS AND
WE ALSO ASKED A QUESTION ALL
WITNESSES AND DEMANDED TO
QUESTION THE TECHNICAL
COMMITTEE THAT EXAMINED THE
EQUIPMENT SEIZED.
>> OUTSIDE, THEIR SUPPORTERS
WAITED ANXIOUSLY FOR NEWS.
>> WE BELIEVE WE WILL BE
ACQUITTED.
WE BELIEVE IN OUR CASE, AN
BELIEVES THAT WE WERE JUST
OPERATING AS JOURNALISTS.
WE DON'T HAVE AN AGENDA.
WE HAVE GOT NOTHING AGAINST
EGYPT.
S.
>> WHAT THEY'RE ACCUSED OF
IS MORE THAN THAT.
THIS POLICE FOOTAGE COMPLETE
WITH SOUNDTRACK WAS PLADYE
ON A PRO GOVERNMENT TV
CHANNEL WHICH LABELED THEM A
TERRORIST CELL.
THE CHARGES THEY FACE TODAY
INCLUDE MANIPULATING FOOTAGE
TO GIVE A FALSE IMAGE THAT
EGYPT IS IN THE MIDDLE OF A
CIVIL WAR AND AIDING THE
MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD WHICH HAS
BEEN DESIGNATED A TERRORIST
GROUP.
TODAY'S TRIAL SENDS A VERY
CLEAR MESSAGE, I THINK.
EGYPT DOES NOT TOLERATE
DISSENT.
THAT IS THE MESSAGE FOR
INTERNATIONAL MEDIA AND ALSO
NATIONAL MEDIA IN EGYPT.
THESE MEN FACE VERY SERIOUS
CRIMINAL CHARGES BUT THE
ROLE REASON THEY ARE IN JAIL
RIGHT NOW IS BECAUSE THEY
DARE TO QUESTION THE MERIT
OF THE AUTHORITIES.
AND THAT IS REALLY WHAT THIS
TRIAL IS ABOUT.
>> IN DECEMBER THESE THREE
SECULAR YOUTH LEADERS
INSTRUMENTAL IN THE ORIGINAL
REVOLUTION OF 2011 WERE
GIVEN THREE YEARS HARD
LABOR.
THE CRACKDOWN ON THE
BROTHERHOOD HAS COME ALONG
SIDE REPRESSION OF BLOGGERS,
SECULARISTS AND DEMOCRATIC
OPPOSITION PARTIES.
>> WHAT WE HAVE RIGHT NOW IS
A WIDENING CIRCLE OF
OPPRESSION, ONE THAT D
JUST TARGET SUPPORTERS OF
MORSI AND NEWS OUTLETS LIKE
AL JAZEERA BUT ALSO BLOGGERS
LIKE-- PEOPLE WHO ARE VERY
OPPOSED TO THE MUSLIM
BROTHERHOOD WHEN THEY WERE
IN POWER.
>> THE HEARING WAS POSTPONED
UNTIL THE 5th OF MARCH.
THE MEN REMAIN BEHIND THESE
NOTORIOUS WALLS.
>> Woodruff: NOW, CURBING
CONFLICTS IN HIGH SCHOOL.
HARI SREENIVASAN LOOKS AT A NEW
APPROACH TO DISCIPLINE THAT
REPLACES SUSPENSIONS WITH
CONVERSATIONS.
>> HEY, GOOD MORNING.
>> Sreenivasan: IN AURORA,
COLORADO, PRINCIPAL MATTHEW
WILLIS WELCOMES THE RECENT
CHANGES AT HINKLEY HIGH SCHOOL,
WHERE 75% OF
STUDENTS QUALIFY FOR FREE AND
REDUCED MEALS.
>> HOW YA DOING?
>> Sreenivasan: WILLIS SAYS
STUDENT FIGHTS ARE DOWN AND
RESPECT AMONG CLASSMATES IS UP.
>> LAST YEAR WE HAD 48%
REDUCTION IN OUT OF SCHOOL
SUSPENSIONS.
WHEN IT COMES TO PHYSICAL
ALTERCATIONS BETWEEN 2007-8, WE
HAD APPROXIMATELY 263 PHYSICAL
ALTERCATIONS, AND SO FAR FOR
THIS YEAR WE'VE ONLY HAD 31
PHYSICAL ALTERCATIONS.
>> Sreenivasan: THE TURN AROUND,
HE SAYS, BEGAN WHEN HINKLEY HIGH
STARTED USING A FORM OF
DISCIPLINE CALLED RESTORATIVE
JUSTICE.
>> EVERY SINGLE YEAR OVER THE
LAST THREE FULL YEARS THAT WE'VE
BEEN DOING RESTORATIVE JUSTICE,
YOU SEE SIGNIFICANT DECLINES IN
DEFIANCE, DISOBEDIENCE AND USE
OF PROFANITY.
>> THIS IS A TALKING CIRCLE, SO
WHEN WE HAVE A PROBLEMS IN THIS
SCHOOL WE COME TOGETHER AND TALK
ABOUT THEM.
>> Sreenivasan: NOW WHEN A MINOR
ALTERCATION DOES OCCUR,
STUDENTS, PARENTS AND THE DEAN
FACE EACH OTHER IN A RESTORATIVE
CIRCLE.
>> RESTORATIVE IS THAT YOU BRING
BACK THE KIDS, IF IT'S STUDENT
WITH STUDENT, OR IF IT'S STUDENT
WITH STAFF, YOU RESTORE THE
RELATIONSHIP.
SO YOU RESTORE THE HARM THAT
>> Sreenivasan: DEAN OF STUDENTS
BONNIE MARTINEZ FACILITATES.
>> WE SPEAK OPENLY AND HONESTLY,
BUT WITH RESPECT.
>> Sreenivasan: ON THE DAY WE
VISITED, TWO SOPHOMORES GIRLS
CAUGHT UP IN A PHYSICAL FIGHT
WERE BROUGHT TO A CIRCLE WITH
THEIR PARENTS INSTEAD OF BEING
SUSPENDED.
>> THIS IS THE TALKING STICK,
WHOEVER IS HOLDING THIS IS THE
ONE TALKING AND EVERYONE ELSE IS
LISTENING.
YOU SAY WHAT HAPPENED FROM YOUR
POINT OF VIEW AND YOU SAY WHAT
HAPPENED FROM YOUR POINT OF
VIEW.
SOMETIMES WE DON'T ALWAYS AGREE
>> SHE CALLED ME THE B WORD, AND
THEN WE JUST STARTED FIGHTING.
>> WHAT KIND OF A LIAR OF YOU.
SHE SAY TO BE HONEST AND YOU NOT
HONEST.
I WAS HERE AND SHE COME WALKING
AND SHE STRIKE ME.
>> Sreenivasan: STUDENTS ARE
ASKED TO TALK ABOUT THE HARM
THEIR ACTIONS MAY HAVE CAUSED,
AND MARTINEZ REQUIRES EVERYONE
TO SIGN AN AGREEMENT.
>> WHAT DO YOU TAKE
RESPONSIBILITY FOR, WHAT DO YOU
THINK WE COULD DO TO HEAL THE
HARM?
>> I'M SORRY FOR HAVING THESE
PROBLEMS WE'VE BEEN HAVING AND I
DON'T WANT IT TO HAPPEN AGAIN.
>> YOU'RE NOT GOING TO BE
ENEMIES AND TREAT EACH OTHER
WITH RESPECT?
TO SOME PEOPLE IT MAY BE VIEWED
AS A SOFT DISCIPLINE, ESPECIALLY
IF YOU LOOK AT THE WESTERN
CULTURE, YOU KNOW, WE'RE ABOUT
WAR AND VIOLENCE, WE'RE NOT
ABOUT PEACE AND HARMONY.
BUT HOWEVER, FOR THOSE GIRLS TO
COME TOGETHER, AND FOR THEIR
FAMILIES TO COME TOGETHER, AND
TALK ABOUT IT, AND TO REALLY,
YOU KNOW, TO EXPRESS TRULY WHAT
HAPPENED, HOW DID IT AFFECT ME
AND OTHERS, WHAT AM I
RESPONSIBLE FOR, AND HOW DO I
SOLVE IT?
THAT'S DEEPER THAN JUST WRITING
UP PAPERWORK.
>> WHAT DO WE KNOW ABOUT ANGER?
IT IS A SECONDARY EMOTION, WHAT
IS UNDERNEATH ANGER?
A LOT OF DEEPER EMOTIONS.
>> Sreenivasan: AT HINKLEY, THE
RESTORATIVE JUSTICE CIRCLES GO
BEYOND THE DEANS OFFICE.
PEER MENTORING CLASSES USE ROLE
PLAYING TO TEACH STUDENTS HOW TO
CONDUCT CIRCLES ON THEIR OWN.
>> IT PISSES ME OFF BECAUSE I
DIDN'T SPREAD RUMORS ABOUT HIM.
I DIDN'T DO NOTHING.
>> Sreenivasan: SOPHOMORE NYECE
SMITH THINKS THE CIRCLES BRING
BETTER RESULTS THAN SUSPENSION.
>> IT USED TO BE LIKE YOU GET
SENT HOME AND SIT THERE FOR FIVE
DAYS, BUT THAT DOESN'T SOLVE
NOTHING, YOU JUST SIT THERE AND
YOU COME BACK WITH THE SAME
ANGER.
WHEN TEACHERS DON'T RESOLVE
THE HARM BY DOING
RESTORATIVE, THAT CONFLICT
IS ALWAYS THERE USUALLY KIDS
WILL JUST STAY ANGRY.
I DON'T LIKE THAT TEACHER
AND SO I DON'T CARE WHAT YOU
SAY AND THEY WILL JUST
DISRUPT, DISRUPT, DISRUPT.
>> I'M DEEPLY SORRY ABOUT
WHAT'S GOING ON.
>> Sreenivasan: MODELS LIKE
HINKLEY'S HAVE GAINED NATIONAL
ATTENTION AFTER THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION IN JANUARY
DIRECTED SCHOOL DISTRICTS TO
SCRAP OVERLY ZEALOUS ZERO
TOLERANCE POLICIES THAT LEAD TO
AUTOMATIC SUSPENSIONS AND
CRIMINAL RECORDS.
SUCH POLICIES, THE OFFICIALS
SAID, IMPACTED MINORITIES AT
HIGHER RATES.
COLORADO'S LEGISLATURE
ELIMINATED ZERO-TOLERANCE IN
SCHOOLS 2012.
>> THE IDEAS OF TRADITIONAL
WHEN IN THE OLD DAYS, WHEN A
STUDENT OR KID GOT INTO TROUBLE
WE WOULD SPANK THEM AND WE MOVED
AWAY FROM SPANKING BECAUSE IT NO
LONGER MET THE VALUES OF OUR
SOCIETY.
THE SAME IS TRUE WITH THE
TRADITIONAL DISCIPLINE WHERE
IT'S ALL ABOUT PUNISHMENT,
PUNISHMENT, PUNISHMENT, IT'S NOT
ABOUT RESTORING RELATIONSHIPS,
IT'S NOT ABOUT TAKING
RESPONSIBILITY FOR YOUR ACTIONS,
IT'S ABOUT PUNISHMENT.
AND SO THAT NO LONGER FITS THE
SOCIETY OF OUR FUTURE.
WHAT FITS THE SOCIETY OF OUR
FUTURE IS PEOPLE COMING
TOGETHER, AND WORKING ON SOLVING
PR
>> Sreenivasan: AND WHILE
NATIONAL MOVEMENT, THE STATE
ACTUALLY PLAYED A ROLE IN THE
MAKING OF ZERO TOLERANCE
POLICIES AFTER THE 1999
SHOOTINGS AT COLUMBINE HIGH
SCHOOL.
SARAH PARK IS THE DIRECTOR OF
EDUCATION FOR  THE DENVER
FOUNDATION, ONE OF THE SPONSORS
OF HINKLEY RESTORATIVE JUSTICE
PROGRAM.
>> IN COLORADO, OUR ZERO
TOLERANCE LAW WAS REALLY IN
RESPONSE TO COLUMBINE.
AND WE WERE SCARED, WE WERE ALL
HEARTBROKEN, WE WERE TERRIFIED,
AND WE WANTED TO MAKE SURE KIDS
WERE SAFE.
AND SO WE THOUGHT, WELL, LET'S
DO THIS, LET'S MAKE SURE, LET'S
MAKE CLEAR THAT THIS IS NON-
NEGOTIABLE, AND THAT'S REALLY
WHERE THE INTENTION AROUND ZERO
TOLERANCE CAME FROM.
UNFORTUNATELY, THE WAY IT PLAYED
OUT WAS, WAS IN MORE NEGATIVE
EDUCATIONAL OUTCOMES, THERE'S
STUDIES LINKING SUSPENSION TO
INCARCERATIONS, AND IT'S MUCH
MORE LIKELY THAT IF A KID IS
SUSPENDED, OR REPEATEDLY
SUSPENDED, THAT THEY'LL END UP
IN JAIL, AND IT'S MUCH MORE
LIKELY THAT IF THEY'RE SUSPENDED
EVEN ONCE IN NINTH GRADE,
THEY'RE MORE LIKELY TO DROP OUT.
>> Sreenivasan: AURORA POLICE
OFFICER JAKE BUNCH, WHO IS
ASSIGNED TO HINKLEY HIGH SCHOOL,
SAYS SOCIAL MEDIA HAS
ACCELERATED HIS NEED TO RELY ON
PERSONAL CONNECTIONS THAT CAN
COME FROM RESTORATIVE JUSTICE.
>> WITH FACEBOOK AND TWITTER,
INFORMATION JUST SPREADS SO
QUICKLY, IT'S HARD TO STAY ON
TOP OF IT, BECAUSE THE KIDS KNOW
ABOUT SOMETHING THAT'S GOING TO
GO DOWN, WAY BEFORE WE COULD
EVER KNOW.
IF I BUILD THAT RELATIONSHIP
WITH KIDS, THEY KNOW THEY CAN
COME TALK TO ME, I CAN HELP THEM
SOLVE THEIR PROBLEMS BEFORE IT
BECOMES A VIOLENT ISSUE.
IT TIES RIGHT INTO RESTORATIVE
JUSTICE.
>> Sreenivasan: NOT ALL
CONFLICTS CAN BE RESOLVED
THROUGH RESTORATIVE CIRCLES,
EVEN SUPPORTERS SEE THE PROCESS
AS ONE OF MANY APPROACHES.
WITHINFEST DORS AT HINCKLEY
HIGH SCHOOL ARE BELOW THE
STATE AVERAGE.
FOR HIS PART THE PRINCIPAL
REMAINS A STRONG BELIEVER IN
THE APPROACH AND IS SHARING
THE SCHOOL'S METHODS WITH
DISTRICTS ACROSS THE STATE.
>> Woodruff: THE PROSPECT OF
REACHING NEW CROSS-BORDER TRADE
DEALS WAS VERY MUCH ON THE MIND
OF PRESIDENT OBAMA DURING HIS
TRIP TO MEXICO THIS WEEK.
BUT A TRADE AGREEMENT THAT'S NOW
TWO DECADES OLD AND STILL THE
SUBJECT OF STRONG DEBATE IS
CASTING A STRONG SHADOW OVER THE
PRESIDENT'S PLANS.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS THE STORY.
>> FOR THE UNITED STATES, CANADA
AND MEXICO ARE TWO OF OUR
LARGEST TRADING PARTNERS, WITH
TRADE THAT SUPPORTS MILLIONS OF
AMERICAN JOBS.
>> Brown: PRESIDENT OBAMA'S ONE-
DAY SUMMIT WITH HIS MEXICAN AND
CANADIAN COUNTERPARTS MARKED 20
YEARS OF THE NORTH AMERICAN FREE
TRADE AGREEMENT OR NAFTA.
>> THANKS IN PART TO OUR EFFORTS
TO BOOST U.S. EXPORTS, AMERICAN
EXPORTS TO CANADA AND MEXICO
CONTINUE TO GROW FASTER THAN OUR
EXPORTS TO THE REST OF THE
WORLD.
TOGETHER OUR COUNTRIES HAVE
STRENGTH TO GIVE NORTH AMERICA A
TREMENDOUS COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE
-- THE SKILLS OF OUR WORKERS,
MANUFACTURING THAT'S GROWING,
AND NEW SOURCES OF ENERGY.
>> Brown: NAFTA WAS ORIGINALLY
SPEARHEADED BY THE FIRST
PRESIDENT BUSH, IN A BID TO
ELIMINATE CROSS-BORDER TRADE
DUTIES AND OTHER BARRIERS.
IT GOT THE BACKING AND WAS
EVENTUALLY SIGNED INTO LAW BY
PRESIDENT CLINTON.
SUPPORTERS ARGUED IT WOULD SPUR
GROWTH.
BUT IN A C.N.N DEBATE WITH VICE
PRESIDENT GORE, BILLIONAIRE
BUSINESSMAN ROSS PEROT FAMOUSLY
ARGUED IT WOULD SEND THOUSANDS
OF JOBS TO LOWER-PAYING, LESS-
REGULATED MEXICO.
>> WHEN YOU'VE GOT A 7:1 WAGE
DIFFERENTIAL BETWEEN THE UNITED
STATES AND MEXICO, YOU WILL ARHE
THE GIANT SUCKING SOUND.
>> NOW, WAIT--
>> THERE'S A POLITICAL LESSON,
THERE'S A BUSINESS LESSON.
>> THIS HAS BEEN A GOOD DEAL FOR
BOTH CANADA AND THE UNITED
STATES.
BOTH HAVE GAINED JOBS, BOTH HAVE
GAINED TRADE FLOWS, BOTH HAVE
BECOME MORE COMPETITIVE IN THE
WORLD MARKETPLACE AS A RESULT.
>> AND THERE IS A TOOTH FAIRY
AND THERE IS AN EASTER BUNNY.
>> Brown: MANY YEARS LATER, THE
DEBATE OVER ITS EFFECTS GOES ON
EVEN AS  PRESIDENT OBAMA PUSHES
FOR NEW TRADE AGREEMENTS-- ONE
WITH THE EUROPEAN UNION AND
ANOTHER, THE TRANS-PACIFIC
PARTNERSHIP, WITH ASIAN NATIONS.
>> SO WHAT I'VE SAID TO
PRESIDENT PENA NIETO AND-- AND
PRIME MINISTER HARPER IS, WE'LL
GET THIS PASSED, IF IT'S A GOOD
AGREEMENT.
>> Brown: STILL, THE PROPOSED
NEW AGREEMENTS FACE OPPOSITION
FROM BOTH REPUBLICANS AND
DEMOCRATS, AND IT'S UNCLEAR WHEN
OR EVEN IF THEY MIGHT MOVE
FORWARD.
WE GET OUR OWN ASSESSMENT OF
WHAT NAFTA HAS DONE AND HOW THAT
SHOULD INFLUENCE COMING
DECISIONS FROM TWO WHO HAVE BEEN
PLAYERS IN THIS FROM THE
BEGINNING.
CARLA HILLS SERVED AS U.S. TRADE
REPRESENTATIVE FROM 1989 THROUGH
1993 UNDER THE FIRST PRESIDENT
BUSH AND HELPED NEGOTIATE NAFTA.
TODAY SHE HEADS HER OWN GLOBAL
TRADE AND INVESTMENT CONSULTING
FIRM.
AND LORI WALLACH IS DIRECTOR OF
THE GLOBAL TRADE WATCH POLICY
GROUP AT PUBLIC CITIZEN, A NON-
PARTISAN ADVOCACY ORGANIZATION.
WELCOME BACK TO BOTH OF YOU.
YOU ARE SMILING AS YOU SAW
THE VIDEO OF YOURSELF
INVOLVED IN THOSE
NEGOTIATIONS.
>> JUST THE OTHER DAY.
>> Brown: SO 20 YEARS LATER,
CARLA HILLS, WHAT GO NAFTA
DO WHAT DID IT ACCOMPLISH?
>> NAFTA WAS A FIRST RATE
TRADE AGREEMENT IN 1994 WHEN
IT WENT INTO EFFECT IT
ELIMINATED INDUSTRIAL
TARIFFS.
IT OPENED UP THE
AGRICULTURAL MARKET WHICH WE
HAVEN'T BEEN ABLE TO DO IN
ANY OTHER AGREEMENT.
IT HAD A FIRST RATE
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
PROTECTION IT PROVIDED
OPENINGS FOR OUR SERVICE
PROVIDERS.
IT REQUIRED NATIONAL
TREATMENT, PROTECTION FOR
OUR INVESTORS.
AND AS A RESULT, OUR TRADE
WITH MEXICO AND CANADA HAS
SOARED 400%.
AND OUR INVESTMENT IS UP
FIVEFOLD.
>> Brown: A SUCCESS STORY.
>> I BELIEVE IT'S A SUCCESS
STORY.
>> Brown: LORI WALLACH, I
KNOW YOU SAW IT DIFFERENTLY
BACK THEN, 20 YEARS LATER,
HOW DO YOU SEE.
>> WELL, WE REALLY
UNDERPREDICTED WHAT THE
DAMAGE WOULD BE.
SO THERE HAS BEEN A LARGE
INCREASE IN TRADE.
BUT A LOT OF IT HAS BEEN A
FLOOD OF NEW NAFTA IMPORTS.
NAFTA DID INCLUDE INVESTOR
PROTECTIONS.
THOSE INCENTIZEDIV
OFF-SHORING OF U.S.
INVESTMENTS AND JOBS.
SO WHILE WE HAVE SOWN A
FLOOD OF MORE TRADE, IT'S
700% OF THAT IS ACTUALLY THE
IMPORTS.
SO WE'VE HAD A GROWTH IN OUR
TRADE DEFICIT OF ALMOST 500%,
480%.
SO JUST THE NUMBERS, BEFORE
NAFTA WE HAD A SLIGHT
SURPLUS WITH MEXICO IN
TRADE.
AND WITH CANADA ABOUT A 30
BILLION DOLLAR DEFICIT.
THE END OF YEAR U.S.
INTERNATIONAL TRADE
COMMISSION OFFICIAL
GOVERNMENT TRADE DATA CAME
OUT LAST WEEK.
WE HAVE 177 BILLION DOLLAR
COMBINED NAFTA TRADE DEFICIT.
USING THE ADMINISTRATION'S
OLD MULTIPLYER OF WHAT THAT
MEANS FOR JOBS, THAT'S A NET
LOSS OF ACCUMULATION OF OVER
A MILLION DLOBS.
AND THERE'S A GOVERNMENT
DATABASE THAT HAS
8-- 845,000 SPECIFIC NAFTA
CASUALTIES TO OUR
MANUFACTURING WORKERS WHO
HAVE BEEN CERTIFIED FOR
ASSISTANCE.
>> Brown: ALL RIGHT, THAT'S
A LOT OF NUMBERS.
>> YES, THAT'S A LOT OF
NUMBERS.
SO IS THIS A DIFFERENT
PICTURE BY THE NUMBERS OR
WHAT EXPLAINS THE
DISCREPANCY?
>> THE FACT IS THAT I THINK
IT'S ALWAYS A MISTAKE TO
TAKE A BILATERAL DEFICIT.
WE'RE IN A GLOBAL
CIRCUMSTANCES.
AND OUR MARKETS ARE SO
INTERTWINED WITH CANADA AND
MEXICO THAT WE DON'T JUST
SELL THINGS TO ONE ANOTHER,
WE MAKE THEM TOGETHER.
A CAR THAT WE MAKE WITH
MEXICO AND CANADA WILL CROSS
OUR NORTHERN AND SOUTHERN
BORDER AS MANY AS FIVE TO
EIGHT TIMES.
AND ALL THAT CREATES THESE
NUMBERS.
THE NUMBER YOU SHOULD LOOK
AT IS THE FACT THAT OUR
LARGEST EXPORT MARKET IS
CANADA.
OUR SECOND LARGEST EXPORT
MARKET IS MEXICO.
ALL OF OUR ENTREPRENEURS
LOVE THAT FACT.
BUT THE ONES WHO REALLY LOVE
IT ARE SMALL AND MEDIUM
SIZED ENTERPRISES WHO SELL
14% OF THEIR EXPORTS GO TO
MEXICO BECAUSE THEY ARE THE
BACKBONE OF JOB CREATION IN
THE UNITED STATES.
THEY CREATE HALF OR MORE OF
OUR JOBS IN THE UNITED
STATES.
I THINK THE NAFTA HAS BEEN A
SUCCESS AND I WOULD LIKE TO
BUILD ON IT.
>> OKAY, WELL SO WE'LL GET
TO THAT IN A MOMENT.
LET ME GIVE YOU ONE MORE.
>> THERE'S-- HERE'S THE
FLUKY THING.
WITH THE INVESTMENT RULES
PROMOTING THE INVESTMENT,
OUR EXPORTS HAVE DECLINED AS
FAR AS 9 GROWTH RATE SO AS
OUR ECONOMIES GET BIGGER,
EXPORT VOLUMES INCREASE.
BUT JUST LOOKING AT THE U.S.
ITC DATA, OUR GROWTH IN
TOORTS IN GOODS TO THE
62% OF THE LEVEL GROWTH RATE
OF WHAT IT WAS FOR SERVICES,
IT'S EVEN DOWN, ACTUALLY IN
HALF.
SO WE HAVE A TRADE AGREEMENT
THAT'S ACTUALLY BEEN A
PENALTY.
AND ON OUR EXPORT GROWTH.
THE ONLY REASON I MENTION
THAT IS THE WHOLE PREMISE OF
NAFTA, ITS PROMISE $200,000
NEW U.S. JOBS A YEAR.
WOULD HOO BUT THATS WITH
BASED ON HAVING AN IMPROVED
TRADE DEFICIT REDUCTION.
INSTEAD WE HAVE A HUGE NEW
TRADE DEFICIT.
SO WE'VE HEMORRHAGED JOBS
AND MORE IMPORTANTLY, THE
BIGGEST EFFECT OF NAFTA IS
ITS FUNDAMENTALLY TRANSFORMED
THE COMPOSITION OF JOBS
AVAILABLE AND THEREFORE
WAGES.
BUT 63% OF AMERICANS DON'T
HAVE A COLLEGE DEGREE.
THOSE MANUFACTURING JOBS ARE
GONE.
AND THE SERVICE SECTOR JOBS,
THE BUREAU OF LABOR
STATISTICS, PAY LESS BY 20%.
>> THIS OF COURSE SAY BIG
ISSUE.
>> THE INCOME INEQUALITY
>> JOBS AND THE INCOME
ISSUE.
INEQUALITY.
>> JOBS AND THE INCOME
YOUR SUGGESTION IS THAT MUCH
INEQUALITY.
OF THAT IS DUE TO SOMETHING
YOUR SUGGESTION IS THAT MUCH
LIKE NAFTA.
OF THAT IS DUE TO SOMETHING
YOU JUST DON'T SEE THAT AS A
LIKE NAFTA.
FACTOR?
YOU JUST DON'T SEE THAT AS A
>> I DO NOT.
FACTOR?
ON THE MANUFACTURING, YOU
>> I DO NOT.
KNOW, WHEN I WAS U.S. TRADE
ON THE MANUFACTURING, YOU
REPRESENTATIVE, I WENT ON
KNOW, WHEN I WAS U.S. TRADE
THE FACTORY FLOOR OF AN AUTO
REPRESENTATIVE, I WENT ON
COMPANY.
THE FACTORY FLOOR OF AN AUTO
THERE WERE PEOPLE ALL
COMPANY.
AROUND.
THERE WERE PEOPLE ALL
SCREWING IN THINGS.
AROUND.
MAKING THINGS.
SCREWING IN THINGS.
TODAY YOU GO ON THE FLOOR OF
MAKING THINGS.
AN AUTOMOBILE FACTORY,
TODAY YOU GO ON THE FLOOR OF
THERE'S NOBODY THERE.
AN AUTOMOBILE FACTORY,
IT'S DONE BY COMPUTERS.
THERE'S NOBODY THERE.
>> AND KNOWLEDGE.
IT'S DONE BY COMPUTERS.
>> THAT HAS NOTHING TO DO
>> AND KNOWLEDGE.
WITH THE NAFTA.
>> THAT HAS NOTHING TO DO
I AGREE WITH LORI WALLACH
WITH THE NAFTA.
THAT WE'VE GOT TO WORRY
I AGREE WITH LORI WALLACH
ABOUT THE LOWEST TWO
THAT WE'VE GOT TO WORRY
QUINNTILE.
ABOUT THE LOWEST TWO
I CARE ABOUT THAT AND I
QUINNTILE.
THINK THERE ARE THINGS WE
I CARE ABOUT THAT AND I
CAN DO.
THINK THERE ARE THINGS WE
BUT TRADE IS AN ADVANTAGE.
CAN DO.
WHEN A MULTINATIONAL COMPANY
BUT TRADE IS AN ADVANTAGE.
LIKE CATERPILLAR INVESTS IN
WHEN A MULTINATIONAL COMPANY
MEXICO, THE PETERSON
LIKE CATERPILLAR INVESTS IN
INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL
MEXICO, THE PETERSON
ECONOMICS HAS DONE A
INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL
WONDERFUL STUDY TO SHOW THAT
ECONOMICS HAS DONE A
FOR A-- THE FOREIGN
WONDERFUL STUDY TO SHOW THAT
INVESTMENT AFFILIATE IN A
FOR A-- THE FOREIGN
FOREIGN COUNTRY, I DIDN'T
INVESTMENT AFFILIATE IN A
SAY THAT CORRECTLY, AN
FOREIGN COUNTRY, I DIDN'T
AMERICAN COMPANY THAT INVESTS
SAY THAT CORRECTLY, AN
IN A FOREIGN FACILITY
AMERICAN COMPANY THAT INVESTS
ACTUALLY CREATES JOBS AT
IN A FOREIGN FACILITY
HOME IT CREATES EMPLOYMENT
ACTUALLY CREATES JOBS AT
AT HOME, INCREASE IN
HOME IT CREATES EMPLOYMENT
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT,
AT HOME, INCREASE IN
CAPITAL EQUIPMENT AT HOME.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT,
SO WE SHOULD LOOK AT THIS
CAPITAL EQUIPMENT AT HOME.
AS-- WE SHOULDN'T LOOK AT
SO WE SHOULD LOOK AT THIS
THIS AS A NEGATIVE.
AS-- WE SHOULDN'T LOOK AT
>> Brown: LET ME TRY TO MOVE
THIS AS A NEGATIVE.
IT UP TO DATE NOW BECAUSE AS
>> Brown: LET ME TRY TO MOVE
I MENTIONED IN OUR SET UP
IT UP TO DATE NOW BECAUSE AS
THERE ARE NEW POTENTIAL
I MENTIONED IN OUR SET UP
AGREEMENT.
THERE ARE NEW POTENTIAL
WHEN YOU LOOK AT SOMETHING
AGREEMENT.
LIKE A TRANSPACIFIC
WHEN YOU LOOK AT SOMETHING
PARTNERSHIP, WHAT LESSONS
LIKE A TRANSPACIFIC
SPECIFICALLY DO YOU THINK
PARTNERSHIP, WHAT LESSONS
SHOULD BE LEARNED FROM NAFTA
SPECIFICALLY DO YOU THINK
IN THINKING ABOUT WHETHER TO
SHOULD BE LEARNED FROM NAFTA
PROCEED WITH SOMETHING LIKE
IN THINKING ABOUT WHETHER TO
THAT?
PROCEED WITH SOMETHING LIKE
>> WELL, THE HEARTBREAK IS
THAT?
THAT THE TPP IS BASICALLY
>> WELL, THE HEARTBREAK IS
NAFTA ON STEROIDS WITH NINE
THAT THE TPP IS BASICALLY
MORE COUNTRIES.
NAFTA ON STEROIDS WITH NINE
SO THE U.S., MEXICO AND
MORE COUNTRIES.
CANADA ARE IN IT.
SO THE U.S., MEXICO AND
BUT THEN SO IS, FOR INSTANCE,
CANADA ARE IN IT.
28 CENTS AN HOUR MINIMUM
BUT THEN SO IS, FOR INSTANCE,
WAGE, VIETNAM.
28 CENTS AN HOUR MINIMUM
SO IS MALAYSIA.
WAGE, VIETNAM.
AND IF YOU LOOK AT THAT
SO IS MALAYSIA.
WHOLE BLOC, ALL OF THE RULES
AND IF YOU LOOK AT THAT
THAT WERE IN NAFTA THAT
WHOLE BLOC, ALL OF THE RULES
PROMOTED THIS DOWNWARD
THAT WERE IN NAFTA THAT
PRESSURE ON WAGES, I MEAN WE
PROMOTED THIS DOWNWARD
LOST 40,000 FACTORIES IN THE
PRESSURE ON WAGES, I MEAN WE
20 YEARS.
LOST 40,000 FACTORIES IN THE
IT IS TRUE-- BUT IN ADDITION,
20 YEARS.
WE A WHOLE SHIFT IN THE
IT IS TRUE-- BUT IN ADDITION,
COMPOSITION OF JOBS AND WHAT
WE A WHOLE SHIFT IN THE
KIND OF JOBS ARE AVAILABLE
COMPOSITION OF JOBS AND WHAT
FOR PEOPLE IN OUR ECONOMY.
KIND OF JOBS ARE AVAILABLE
AND THERE'S ECONOMIC
FOR PEOPLE IN OUR ECONOMY.
CONSENSUS THAT ACTUALLY
AND THERE'S ECONOMIC
TRADES A MAJOR CONTRIBUTOR
CONSENSUS THAT ACTUALLY
TO INCOME INEQUALITY.
TRADES A MAJOR CONTRIBUTOR
WE HAVE THE WHOLE LITERATURE
TO INCOME INEQUALITY.
SEARCH OF ALL OF THE STUDIES
WE HAVE THE WHOLE LITERATURE
FROM THE PEERSTON INSTITUTE
SEARCH OF ALL OF THE STUDIES
TO ACROSS THE SPECTRUM, ON
FROM THE PEERSTON INSTITUTE
OUR WEB SITE AT TRADE
TO ACROSS THE SPECTRUM, ON
WATCH.ORG.
OUR WEB SITE AT TRADE
IF PEOPLE WANT TO LEAD THE
WATCH.ORG.
STUDIES YOU CAN LINK BACK TO
IF PEOPLE WANT TO LEAD THE
THE DIFFERENT THINK TANKS.
STUDIES YOU CAN LINK BACK TO
THE ONLY DEBATE IS WHAT
THE DIFFERENT THINK TANKS.
PERCENTAGE OF INCOME INEQUAL
THE ONLY DEBATE IS WHAT
SIT CAUSED BY TRADE AM NOW
PERCENTAGE OF INCOME INEQUAL
YOU LOOK AT THE TPP.
SIT CAUSED BY TRADE AM NOW
AT ITS HEART ARE THE SAME
YOU LOOK AT THE TPP.
RULES THAT WERE IN NAFTA,
AT ITS HEART ARE THE SAME
THE INVESTOR PROTECTIONS
RULES THAT WERE IN NAFTA,
THAT PROMOTE OFFSHORING.
THE INVESTOR PROTECTIONS
BUT TO AN EVEN LOWER WAGE
THAT PROMOTE OFFSHORING.
COUNTRY, VIETNAM, AND SO THE
BUT TO AN EVEN LOWER WAGE
COMPANIES ARE EXCITED ABOUT
COUNTRY, VIETNAM, AND SO THE
THIS.
COMPANIES ARE EXCITED ABOUT
THEY LOOK AT THE BAN IN BUY
THIS.
AMERICA PROCUREMENT IN THERE
THEY LOOK AT THE BAN IN BUY
THEY LOOK AT THE RIGHT TIME
PORT FOOD AND PRODUCTS THAT
DON'T MEET OUR STANDARDS,
THE RIGHT TO OFFSHORE, TO
VIETNAM.
AND YOU CAN SEE WHY THEY'RE
INTERESTED.
BUT THE PUBLIC POLLING SHOWS
DEMOCRATS, REPUBLICANS,
INDEPENDENTS ARE AGAINST
ANYTHING THAT EVEN SMELLS
LIKE A NAFTA EXPANSION.
>> BUT THIS IS WHAT THE
PRESIDENT IS RUNNING UP
AGAINST, RIGHT.
CARLA HILLS.
HE'S GETTING ALOT OF
OPPOSITION ACROSS-THE-BOARD,
ACTUALLY, TO THESE KINDS OF
EXPANDED TRADE AGREEMENTS.
>> YES, POLITICALLY IT'S
DIFFICULT.
AND I ASK THINK TANK,
UNIVERSITIES, MEDIA, TO
EXPLAIN TO PEOPLE THE
BENEFITS OF TRADE.
I WISH TO RESPOND TO THE
SUGGESTION THAT THE NAFTA
HAS DEPRESSED WAGES.
IN FACT, JUST LAST YEAR
THERE WAS A STUDY BY YALE
AND OUR OWN FED WHICH SAID
THAT THE WAGES WERE
INCREASED AS A RESULT OF
NAFTA, INCREASED AS A RESULT
OF NAFTA, NOT HUGELY, BUT
ADJUSTED FOR INFLATION,
DEFINITELY THERE WAS AN
INCREASE IN WAGES IN THE
UNITED STATES, CANADA, AND
MEXICO.
>> Brown: WE HAVE BEENABOUT
30 SECONDS BECAUSE WE'RE
TEND OF THE PROGRAM SO GO
AHEAD.
>> ON THE TRANSPIFK
PARTNERSHIP, WHICH LIKE TO
SEE US BUILD ON THE NAFTA
PLATFORM.
I WOULD LIKE TO WORK AND
CREATE MARKET OPENINGS IN
VIETNAM, IN JAPAN THAT
PROVIDE THE NORTH AMERICAN
ECONOMIES WORKING AS A
PARTNERSHIP TO DO MORE
ABROAD BECAUSE WE ARE THE
MOST COMPETITIVE PLATFORM
YOU CAN FIND IN THE WORLD.
>> Brown: ALL RIGHT, WE WILL
HAVE TO LEAVE IT THERE.
BUT THANK YOU ONCE AGAIN FOR
SHARING ALL THAT, CARLA
HILLS, LORI WALLACH, THANK
YOU.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
A TENTATIVE TRUCE IN UKRAINE'S
CAPITAL EXPLODED INTO VIOLENCE
AS RIOT POLICE OPEN FIRE ON
PROTESTERS HURLING FIREBOMBS.
A DOCTOR TREATING VICTIMS
REPORTED 70 KILLED AND 500
WOUNDED.
THE WHITE HOUSE SAID PRESIDENT
OBAMA IS CONSIDERING NEW
SANCTIONS AGAINST UKRAINE, BUT
NOT MILITARY ACTION.
AND IRAN AND SIX WORLD POWERS --
INCLUDING THE U.S.-- WRAPPED UP
THEIR OPENING ROUND OF NUCLEAR
TALKS IN VIENNA, WITH PLANS TO
MEET AGAIN IN MARCH.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE RIGHT NOW, JOSHUA
OPPENHEIMER TRIED TO TELL THE
STORY OF INDONESIA'S BRUTAL
KILLING CAMPAIGN OF THE 1960'S
FROM THE PERSPECTIVE OF ITS
SURVIVORS.
BUT WHEN THE ARMY THREATENED
THEM UNLESS THEY STOPPED
TALKING, HE TURNED THE CAMERA ON
THE PERPETRATORS-- FORMER
LEADERS OF THE DEATH SQUADS THAT
CARRIED OUT THE MASS EXECUTIONS.
THE RESULT IS A CHILLING RE-
ENACTMENT OF THE HORRORS OF
THEIR PAST IN THE DOCUMENTARY,
"THE ACT OF KILLING."
WATCH OUR INTERVIEW WITH THE
OSCAR-NOMINATED FILMMAKER, ON
ART BEAT.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON FRIDAY, WE REPORT ON TEENS
PROSECUTED AS ADULTS, THEN SENT
TO SOLITARY CONFINEMENT AT NEW
YORK'S TOUGH RIKER'S ISLAND.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING WITH MARK
SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.